---
title: Updates
---

# Updates

> Stay _up to date_ with MDN Updates
>
> Whether Web APIs, JavaScript, CSS, HTTP, or HTML, MDN Web Docs reflects the
> ever-changing landscape for features across the most popular browsers and
> devices with detailed documentation and guidance geared towards developers.

When you're developing for the Web, you need to make sure you're building
applications with well-supported features to give your users the best
experience. Choosing new Web features means that you need to keep an eye on
compatibility changes as vendors frequently add, update, or remove support for
Web platform technologies.

MDN Updates is a feature that helps you navigate and curate Web platform
technology support via a stream of updates. The results organized in the stream
of updates show compatibility by feature across fourteen different browser
engines, from iOS and Android to desktop and server platforms.

Features are categorized by technology like CSS, HTML, JavaScript, HTTP, and
others to let you focus on the technologies that impact your development
projects.

MDN Plus Updates lets you quickly get an overview of new, experimental, and
upcoming browser support, new sub-features under a major feature, deprecated or
removed support, and changes to existing browser compatibility data entries.

## Using MDN Plus Updates

To use Updates, navigate to the [MDN Plus Updates](/en-US/plus/updates) page,
where you can see a list of all changes in browser support for features on MDN
Web Docs listed by date.

![Screenshot of default view](/assets/plus-docs/updates/updates.png)

For each feature, updates display the release version and the date when browser
support changed. Expanding the update shows Browser Compatibility Tables to
indicate support across all browsers and devices. The feature update includes
links to MDN Web Docs pages with clear documentation and guidance on how to use
it.

![Expanded feature screenshot with the table, link to docs, watch and save](/assets/plus-docs/updates/updates_bcd.png)

## Filtering and searching web platform updates

By default, the list of updates shows all changes grouped by browser release
version and date. Selecting a browser from the dropdown menu will filter the
list of changes to only show changes for that browser. You can select a category
from the dropdown menu to only show changes for that technology category or
combine that with a browser filter to show only changes for a specific browser
and technology category.

![Filtered screenshot, browser and category](/assets/plus-docs/updates/updates_filter.png)

You can also search for a specific feature by name or keyword to find the
functionality you're looking for.

![Search screenshot"](/assets/plus-docs/updates/updates_filter.png)

## Curating your own collection of updates

Aside from Browser Compatibility Tables and links to the MDN Web Docs pages,
expanding feature details provides an additional option to **Save** the feature.
Saving a feature will add it to a curated collection of features you want to
track. You can create multiple collections to organize and group features that
matter most for your applications and projects.

Saving a feature to a collection allows you to add the feature to a collection
of saved features. You can create multiple collections to organize and group
features you want to track.

![Screenshot of multiple collections](/assets/plus-docs/updates/collections.png)

To view your collection of saved features, click the **Saved** tab at the top of
the Updates page.

![Screenshot showing the multiple collections on the updates page](/assets/plus-docs/updates/updates_collection.png)

Visit the [MDN Plus Updates](/en-US/plus/updates) page and give us feedback.
